a team I wanted to do a quick video on
how to add effects into a monitor mix
but a quick note before I get into it
remember that say if we have a vocalist
for instance who asked for effects into
their monitor a lot of times that those
effects can will make the vocalist
perform better because they are more
confident and their makes it so dry
sounding but also be aware that if that
vocalist becomes pitchy
it could possibly be because the effects
are modifying their mix in a way that
they can't accurately hear themselves so
if that's the case you know dial it back
a little bit
anyways so how to do it it's fairly um I
don't want to say intuitive but it's
like mostly other things so what we
would do here is go to our monitor mixes
and let's say our vocal our lead vocal
is wanting some more effects in their
mix basically just hit sends on fader
we're going to go here to the was say
aux in FX returns and basically what
we're doing is we're going to return
this whatever effect that you want into
the vocal mix so for this instance I've
got this this channel selected for this
vocal mix and I want to give them this
effect remember they come in pairs
because they're stereo effects so I'm
going to push this one up and it's just
like sending anything else to that mix
you know got sends on fader selected and
I'm turning this up to send it to here
so that they now have effects now keep
in mind though this is dependent on if
the facts are actually being used and
what I mean by that is turn this off if
you know let's say we have a vocal here
vocal one for instance in where you we
you know we want to give them this
effect Effect 1 so I select this sends
on fader
yes vocal 1 is getting effects also the
sent to the effects unit is the see as
it turned up yes it has turned up
census turned up but notice that the
vocal is not actually turned up so the
way it's set up right now is these
effects are dependent on the master
slider so if this thing as this thing
goes up and down it also affects the
effects so this is down no effects
this is up the effects are coming in and
you know just like all the other effects
you can also know by watching the meters
you know if you have incoming signal
it'll show up there outgoing signal
going there anyways that's it hope it
works for you guys
Thanks